# EcoSMMARTS

“RunEcoSMMARTS_Miller.m” is a MATLAB file that contains the EcoSMMARTS model and the code to obtain the results in "A soil microbial model to analyze decoupled microbial growth and respiration during soil drying and rewetting" Section 4.1 (as an example)

Abstract: Soils are continuously exposed to cycles of drying and rewetting (D/RW), which drive pronounced fluctuations in soil carbon (C) fluxes. These C dynamics are characterized by a decoupled behavior between microbial biomass synthesis (growth) and CO2 production (respiration). In general, respiration rates peak shortly after RW and subsequently decrease, while the growth peaks lag several hours behind. Despite the significance of these dy-namics for the soil C budget and the global C cycle, this feature has so far been overlooked in biogeochemical models and the underlying mechanisms are still unclear. We present a new process-based soil microbial model that incorporates a wide range of physical, chemical and biological mechanisms thought to affect D/RW re-sponses. Results show that the model is able to capture the respiration dynamics in soils exposed to repeated cycles of D/RW, and also to single events in which moisture was kept constant after RW. In addition, the model reproduces, for the first time, the responses of microbial growth to D/RW. We have identified the C accumulation during dry periods, the  drought-legacy effect on  the  synthesis of  new biomass, and osmoregulation as  the strongest candidate mechanisms to explain these C dynamics. The model outputs are further compared to earlier process-based models, highlighting the advances generated by the new model. This work thus represents a step towards unravelling the microbial responses to drought and rainfall events, with implications for our under-standing of C cycle and C sequestration in soils

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2020.107871
